To run Question 3 (Q3) in PySpark on AWS using Amazon Athena, follow these detailed instructions:

Set Up AWS Environment:
Make sure you have an AWS account. If not, sign up for one.
Follow the AWS Setup Guide provided by your instructor to set up your AWS environment, including creating an S3 bucket and uploading the necessary files.
Set your region to US East (N. Virginia) to avoid data transfer charges.
Ensure that you have AWS credits available for running the necessary services.

Accessing Data:
The dataset provided for Q3 should already be uploaded to your S3 bucket. If not, upload the required dataset files (trip_data.csv and lookup_data.csv) to your S3 bucket.

Configure PySpark Environment:
Use a Docker image provided by your instructor to set up a PySpark environment. Docker allows for easy setup and configuration of the required dependencies.
Once Docker is installed and running, access Jupyter Notebook by browsing to http://localhost:6242. This should open the Jupyter interface.

Implement Functions:
Open the provided Jupyter Notebook file (q3.ipynb) in your Jupyter interface.
Implement the necessary functions (long_trips, manhattan_trips, weighted_profit, final_output) as specified in the assignment. You can write the code directly in the notebook cells.

Load Data:
Use the provided load_data() function to load the trip data and lookup data into PySpark DataFrames.
Make sure to replace the file paths in the load_data() function with the appropriate S3 bucket paths where your trip data and lookup data are stored.

Run Main Function:
Once you have implemented all the necessary functions, run the main() function. This will execute the entire process, including data analysis and writing the final output to a CSV file.

Output CSV File:
After running the main() function, check the specified S3 bucket for the output CSV file (q3_output_large.csv). This file contains the final output with the required information.

Cleanup:
Once you have obtained the output file, you can stop the Docker container running PySpark to release system resources.
If you're done with the AWS resources, remember to delete any unused resources (e.g., EMR clusters, S3 buckets) to avoid unnecessary charges.